# Notes for April 1st, 2025

## Why Not to Implement your own Crypto

- Not even talking about a brand new crypto scheme; just implementing one that's
  already used.
- Side-channel attacks are very common.

### Side-Channel Attacks

- Cryptography concerns the theoretical difficulty in breaking a cipher.
- But what about the information that a particular _implementation_ can leak?
- Attacks based on these are **side channel attacks**.

#### Simple Power Analysis (SPA)

- Interpret the _power usage_ of your computer.
- You can interpret _specific instructions_.

#### Differential Power Analysis (DPA)

- SPA just visually inspects a single run
- DPA runs iteratively and reactively
  - Gets multiples samples.
  - Based on these, runs additional instructions.

### Mitigating Such Attacks

- Hide information by making the execution paths depend on the inputs as little
  as possible.
  - Have to give up some optimizations that depends on particular bit values in
    keys.
- The crypto community should seek to design systems under the assumption that
  some information is going to leak.

### Unsafe Optimizations

- Be wary about optimizations to crytographic algorithms!

### Poor Certificate Management

- Websites aren't properly revoking certificates
- Browsers aren't properly checking for revocations.
- Websites aren't keeping their secret keys secret.

#### Why do they do all this?

- CAs have incentive to introduce disincentives (bandwidth costs).
- Websites have disincentives to update their certificates (loading times).
- See [Exam 2 Topics](/notes/20250401_CSCI368_Exam2_Topics.md) for the exam
  topics that will be on exam 2.

## Networking

### Why does the Internet Work?

- _Protocols_:
  Agreements on how to communicate.
- Publicly standardized, especially by Requests for Comments (RFCs).
- Code to the protocol and your product will work with other products.
- Packets have 20-byte headers.
- After that, it has a payload which is the data that the IP is delivering.
- The network is also dumb.
- End-hosts are the peripheries.
- Routers and switches are interior nodes that:
  - Route (figure out where to forward).
  - Forward (actually send).
- Principle:
  The routers have no knowledge of ongoing connections through them.
- They do "destination-based" routing and forwarding.

### Layers

- Physical Layer:
  Send and receive bits.
  - Broadcasts on shared link.
- Link Layer:
  Locally sending and receiving.
  - Adds framing and destination but still assumes there is a shared link.
- Network Layer:
  Globally sending and receiving
  - Adds global addresses.
  - Requires routing.
- Transport Layer (TCP, UDP):
  Process sending and receiving requests.
  - End-to-end communicate between processes.
  - Adds ports/reliability.
- Application Layer:
  Arbitrary.
  - Application-specific semantics.

### IP Packet Header Fields

- Version number (4 bits).
  - Indicates the version of the IP protocol.
  - Necessary for knowing which fields to follow.
  - Usually either 4 or 6.
- Header length (4 bits).
  - How many 32-bit words there are.
- Two IP addresses.
  - Source (32 bits).
  - Destination (32 bits).
- Destination address:
  Unique identifier/locator for the receiving host.
  - Allows each node to make forwarding decisions.
- Source address:
  Unique identifier/locator for the sending host.
  - Rceipient can decide whether to accept the packet.
  - Allows destination to _reply_ to the source.

### IP: "Best Effort" Packet Delivery

- Routers inspect the destination address, determine "next hop" in the
  forwarding table.
- Best effort = "I'll give it a try".
  - Packets may be lost.
  - Packets may be corrupted.
  - Packets may be delivered out-of-order.

### Attacks on IP

- Source-spoof:
  There is nothing in IP that enforces that your source IP address is really
  "yours".

#### Source-Spoofing

- Why source-spoof?
  - Consider spam:
    Send many emails from one computer.
  - Easy defense:
    Block many emails from a given (source) IP address.
  - Easy countermeasure:
    Spoof the source IP address.
  - Counter-countermeasure?
  - Consider DoS attacks:
    Generate as much traffic as possible to congest the victim's network.
  - Easy defense:
    Block all traffic from a given source near the edge of your network.
  - Easy countermeasure:
    Spoof the source address

#### Salient Network Features

- Recall:
  The internet operates via _destination-based routing_.
- Attacker:
  Packet (spoofed source) -> Destination.
- Destination:
  Packet -> Spooked source.

#### Defending Against Source-Spoofing

- How do you know if a packet you receive has a spoofed source?
  - Send a challenge packet to the (possibly-spoofed) source.
  - If the recipient can answer the challenge, then likely that source was not
    spoofed.
- So do you have to do this with every packet?
  - Every packet should have something that's difficult to guess.
  - Recall the query ID in DNS queries!

#### Egress Filtering

- The point (router/switch) at which traffic _enters_ your network is the
  _ingress_ point.
- The point (router/switch) at which traffic _leaves_ your network is the
  _egress_ point.
- You don't know who owns all IP addresses in the world, but you do know who in
  your own network gets what IP address.
  - If you see a packet with a source IP not in your network doing weird things,
    drop it.
